
                                                17-02-2023 Friday 

Nodejs core
express js
mongoose js
passport js
multer js
axios
fetch
socket io
nodemailer
googleapi's 

                                                18-02-2023 Saturday

Types of language
programming language - Java c cpp
markup language - html
Scripting language - js python 

Compiler and Interpreture
 Compiler: 
    It is a translator which takes input i.e., High-Level Language, and produces an output of low-level language i.e. machine or assembly language. 
    A compiler is more intelligent than an assembler it checks all kinds of limits, ranges, errors, etc.
    But its program run time is more and occupies a larger part of memory. It has a slow speed because a compiler goes through the entire program and then translates the entire program into machine codes.

    	It converts the source code into object code.

 Interpreter: 
    An interpreter is a program that translates a programming language into a comprehensible language. –  
    It translates only one statement of the program at a time.
    Interpreters, more often than not are smaller than compilers.

        It does not convert source code into object code instead it scans it line by line


var let const

truthy falsy

decliration

initialization

Windows

browser apis

server

this


                                       25-02-2023 Saturday

Loops and Functions

Method : .Join(), .split()

Loops
for, while, do-while, foreach,for...of,for..in

Note- Break doesn't works in foreach

                                       26-02-2023 Sunday

Functions

es5-before
Functions statement
Functions expression
Anonumous Functions
es6-after
Fat Arrow Functions
Fat Arrow with one parameter
Fat Arrow with implicit return


                                       27-02-2023 Monday

iife(s) -> imediatly invoked function expression
Objects

                                       03-03-2023 Friday

higher order Functions
   -> any function accepting another function as parameter or teturning a function (Note always not some time)

How array an objects
   -> a[-1000] = 2 => {-1000 : 2}

helper/method/inbuilt functions -> pop(),push(),shift(),unshift()

map
   -> structure is almost same as foreach,but it requires you to return somthing, it creates a blank imaginary array and
   everytime the value you return is placed inside that array
   
filters
   -> structure exactly same as map, but you don't return value in filter but true or false
   ex - make and arry with 100 space and fill it with null without using loop


                                       04-03-2023 Saturday

This keyword
call apply and binding

imp for interview

this keyword - this keyword is especial type of keyword which changes its value according to the context

all the html code is an object for JavaScript

global - Windows
function - Windows
method - object

es5 function inside method = Windows
es6 function inside method = object

in the arrow function this takes its value from prents
this in call back function it takes its value which is just before the nears method 

whenever we run fucntion this takes it value windows as by default 
but if we want to changes its value to some other object means instead of taking value windows it takes some other object 
then we use call apply and bind

call
call takes more than two arguments which is not a good practice
Call() Method: The call method is basically used to invoke the function with different this object. In JavaScript, this refers to an object. It depends on how we are calling a particular function. In the global scope, this refers to the global object window. Inside function also this refers to the global object window.

In strict mode, when we use any function then this refers to undefined. In functions like call, this could refer to a different object. With the help of the call method, we can invoke a particular function with different objects.

apply
   apply takes only two arguments

bind
   bind return an bounded function 
   so than we can call it when ever we want to call 


                                          Node 



Install Node js
lts-long terrm support
in the first java scirpt file create a var A with a value 12 var = 12 now we need to export iton a second new file 
we need to import it
to export we do: module.exports = (anything you want) 
in new file to import require("./file name")

/ - root folder
. same folder
./ same folder 
.. one folder back
../ - one folder back
../../ two folders back

npx nodemon script => it will reload by it self
<%= 2+3%>

package installation
npm i packageName
Express
ejs

route creation 
    const express = require('express')
    const app = express()

creation
    app.get('/', function (req, res) {
    res.send('Hello World')
    })

    app.listen(3000)

express views


saari aisis files jo kin frontend se taaluk rakhti hai ejs ko chhodh kar unhe kahte hai static files aur uske liye
public folder bana padta hai 

__dirname
path.join(dirname,dirname);


backend ke route se value ejs bhejana





there are only three ways in you can change your url
    1. Anchar taa <a> </a> prams
    2. get method - query
    3. post method - body

get -> req.query
post -> req. body

hum jab bhi form submit karte hai to wo form bhi kisi route par jaata hai wo  data leker jo appne likha tha form mei ab kuyki data gay hai backend par to shayad hame uski jarurat pade, aur jarurat padne par aapko use karna padega, to access kaise karoge?
aisi koi bhi imput field jismein name naa ho wo bakcedn me nahi jaayegi
